PAB-4093: Change log for new parameters in Counter block (#2246)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/analytics/apama-in-c8y-20240704-Define-maximum-values-with-the-Counter-block-in-Analytics-Builder.md

---
date: 

> title: Define maximum values with the Counter block in Analytics Builder

Reviewer: I think I'd prefer "Specify maximum values for the....". I think specify is a more appropriate word than define?

change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y
ticket: PAB-4093
version:
---
The **Counter** block in the Analytics Builder model editor has been updated to allow you to set a maximum value for each counter independently. This change was made because it was difficult and cumbersome to create periodic behavior in Analytics Builder, and it gives more control over counting in general.
The following new parameters are available for this purpose:

- **Maximum Count** (input field)
- **Loop Count** (check box)
- **Maximum Number Same** (input field)
- **Loop Number Same** (check box)

> The counter in question can then loop. Depending on the setting of the corresponding check box, the counter either resets its corresponding output port (**Count** or **Number Same**) to zero when reaching the maximum value, or it stops counting when reaching the maximum value and must then be reset manually.

Reviewer 2: When looping the counters loop back to 1., not 0. This is because they reach the maximum number, and then the next input triggers the loop, at which point that input is the first of the reset count. Thus the Reset input resets the counters to zero as there is no associated input at that point.

Author: Sorry, I'm confused. Please let me know how exactly to change the change log entry.

Reviewer 3: I think we are getting very confused here because we are using different ways to explain the concept at different places. We should just stick to one way to explain this.
(and sorry if I added to the confusion @kailol-sag )

When the loop parameter is checked (Loop Count or Loop Number Same) the counter (Maximum Count or Maximum Number Same ) returns to one, counting the first input after the maximum has been reached.

When the signal is set to Reset port then the counters are set to 0.

And we should update the Apama doc for Loop count and Loop Number Same because they talk about resetting to 0.

Author: Thanks a lot, Shruti. When the ApamaDoc is updated, I hope that Nick then also remembers to include the helpful information from the doc subtask which I did not copy over into the change log :-)

Reviewer 2: I'm still not clear which bit of the info you'd like copied into the ApamaDoc.

Author: Copied from your doc input on PAB-4480:
Add to the Maximum Count input field:
"If the counter is looping, this can be useful for triggering an action on every n<sup>th</sup> input."

Add to the Maximum Number Same input field:
"This can be useful for assessing whether a value has remained static for an unexpectedly long time, such as positions within a GPS measurement."

See also my above comment from 5 hours ago and Shruti's response.

> The counter in question can then loop. Depending on the setting of the corresponding check box, the counter either resets its corresponding output port (**Count** or **Number Same**) to zero when reaching the maximum value, or it stops counting when reaching the maximum value and must then be reset manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The counter in question can then loop. Depending on the setting of the corresponding check box, the counter either resets its corresponding output port (**Count** or **Number Same**) to one, counting the first input after reaching the maximum value, or it stops counting when reaching the maximum value and must then be reset manually.
```

> The existing behavior remains as the default.

Reviewer: "For compatibility, the previous behavior..."

> Note that the **Reset** input port resets both counters. If this is a problem, you must use a separate **Counter** block for each counter.

Reviewer 4: @kailol-sag I don´t think that **Reset** and **Counter** should be formatted in bold here as these terms are not referring to screen elements. Actually also in line 17, but here bold formatting could be used for initial highlighting.
